RHIDP-12605: Phase 2 Homepage - persona support and related RBAC (#2153)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: modules/shared/ref-homepage-backend-configuration-reference.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE

[id="homepage-backend-configuration-reference_{context}"]
= Homepage backend configuration reference

[role="_abstract"]

> Reference information about the homepage backend plugin configuration options, card structure, and API endpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use these backend plugin configuration options, card structures, and API endpoints to customize and manage your homepage data.
```

|===

== Configuration example

The following example shows a complete homepage backend configuration with persona-based visibility:

[source,yaml]
----
homepage:
  defaultWidgets:
    # Search bar - visible to all users
    - id: onboarding
      ref: 'rhdh-onboarding-section'
      layout:
        xl: { w: 12, h: 6 }
        lg: { w: 12, h: 6 }

    # Quick access card - visible to all users
    - id: quickaccess-card
      ref: quickaccess-card
      layout:
        xl: { w: 6, h: 8, x: 6 }

    # Group with shared visibility - visible only to admins
    - if:
        groups: [group:default/admins]
      children:
        - id: rbac
          ref: RBAC
          layout:
            xl: { w: 12, h: 6 }

    # Templates - visible only to developers
    - id: templates
      ref: TemplateSection
      if:
        groups: [group:default/developers]
      layout:
        xl: { w: 12, h: 5 }
        lg: { w: 12, h: 5 }
----

== API endpoints

The homepage backend plugin exposes the following API endpoints:

[cols="40%,15%,45%", frame="all", options="header"]
|===
|Endpoint
|Method
|Description

|`/api/homepage/default-widgets`
|GET

> |Returns a JSON object with an `items` array containing card configurations for the current user based on their user reference, RBAC group membership, and permissions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Returns a JSON object with an `items` array containing card configurations for the current user based on their user reference and group membership.
```

There are some limitations related to the `permissions`, can we drop that note until https://redhat.atlassian.net/browse/RHDHBUGS-3132 is fixed?

The response includes only individual cards (not parent groups) that match the user's visibility conditions.
|===

== API response format

The `/api/homepage/defaultWidgets` endpoint returns a JSON object containing an array of visible card configurations:

[source,json]
----
{
  "items": [
    {
      "id": "onboarding",
      "ref": "rhdh-onboarding-section",
      "layout": {
        "xl": { "w": 12, "h": 6 },
        "lg": { "w": 12, "h": 6 }
      }
    },
    {
      "id": "quickaccess-card",
      "ref": "quickaccess-card",
      "layout": {
        "xl": { "w": 6, "h": 8, "x": 6 }
      }
    }
  ]
}
----

The response contains only individual cards (not parent groups) that the current user can see based on visibility rule processing.

> Cards appear in the order they match visibility conditions.

Reviewer 2: Can you please drop the api endpoint documentation. This makes this part "official api" but it's an implementation detail we want be able to change at any time.

Author: > Can you please drop the api endpoint documentation. This makes this part "official api" but it's an implementation detail we want be able to change at any time.

Sure, I have removed this section, @christoph-jerolimov.
